## Services

### Services in Kubernetes
- The service provides a single point of entry for accessing one or more pods.

### Why services?
- Pods are mortal and may only live a short time
- We can't rely on the pod's IP address as it is subjected to change on scaled horizontally.
- A pod gets its IP address after its has been scheduled, there is no way to predict the IP in advance.

### What services do ?
- Services abstract pod IP address from consumers
- BAlances the load b/w pod
- Relies on the labels, In the manifest we have to connect b/w services and pods using labels.
- It operates on TCP/IP layer (layer 4)
- Services are not emhemeral. They lives and don't have a short lifetime
- Creates an endoint which sits between service and pod.

### Services in K8
#### ClusterIP 
- Expose the service on a clsuter-internal IP. 
- Service IP is exposed internally within the cluster
- Only pods witin the cluster can talk to the service
- Allows pods to talk to other pods

#### NodePort: 
- expose the service on each node's IP at a static port
- Allocates a port from a range (30000 - 32767)
- Each node proxies the allocated port

#### LoadBalancer
- Provision an external IP to act as a load balancer for the services
- For loadbalancer its useful when combined with a cloud provider's LB.
- When an LB svc is set up it will internally creates the NodePort and the Clsuter IP service.
- So External use will go to the LB, LB will go to the node port and each node proxies the allocated port to the cluster IP.

#### External Name
- Maps a device to a DNS name
- sevice that acts as an alias for an external service
- Allows a service to act as the proxy for an external service.