## Pods

### What are pods?

- According to Kubernetes, A pod is a basic execution unit of a kubernetes application- the smallest and simplest unit in the kubernetes object model that you create or deploy.
- Pod provide the environment for containers
- Used for organize application into ports.
- Pod has its own IP address, memory, volumes, etc and can be shared accross containers.
- Pod can be scale horizontally by adding pod replicas.
- Pod lives and die but never comeback to life as the kubernetes replaces the unhealthy pods with healthy one.

### Pod Network
- Each pod within the node has a unique IP address and this will bydefault is the cluster IP address and the container within that can have their own unique ports.
- Containers within the pod share the same network namespace.
- Pod containers have the same loopback network interface (localhost)
- In case of multi-container, Container processes need to bind to different ports within a pod
- Ports can be reused by containers in separate pods.

### Running a Pod
- There are several ways to schedule a pod:
```
kubectl run [pod Name] --image=[image name]
or
kubectl create/apply [path to the yaml file]
```

### Get the Pod Details
- To get the pod details we can run below commands
```
kubectl get pods # Get only the pod details
or
kubectl get all #List all resources
```

### Expose a pod
- Pods and containers are only accessible within the kubernetes cluster by default.
- Only way to expose a container port is to use below command
```
kubectl port-forward [name-of-the-pod] 8080:80  #Enable pod container to be called externally
```
- Here 8080 will be the port using which we can access the container on the browser, for example, hence it is called as external port
- 80 is the port on which the container is running inside the pod, hence called internal port

### Delete a pod
- Running a pod will cause a deployment to be created.
- To delete a pod use the kubectl delete pod or find the deployment and use kubectl delete deployment

```
kubectl delete pod [name-of-the-pod] # Will create pod to be recreated
or
kubectl delete deployment [name-of-deployment]
```
